So with that, we have a site,
that's up and running, okay?
It's doing what we want,
we can navigate around, okay, perfect.
So let's enable identity,
so I'm gonna come in here,
I'm just gonna click this
identity button and click Enable.
And we're done, that's it [LAUGH].
So then, now that I've got that,
here in this layout, when this boots up,
it's gonna find that and
use it as the context for logging in.
That means that we can do
a couple other things.
So the first thing that I wanna do is,
I wanna get us to be
able to actually log in.
So let's go to this route login
component that we created.
And I'm going to pull up netlify
dev again so that we, netlify dev.
And I wanna go to my login component.
And then let's give ourselves some
screen real estate, And close that up.
Okay, so now that we've got
the the netlify provider
kind of in context showing
us what we're working with.
Okay, so our app is wrapped
in that identity provider,
and we've got a valid instance of
our OAuth provider up in the cloud,
which is a netlify right now, we can
start kinda making requests against it.
So what I'm gonna do is,
in our login component,
I'm going to import useIdentityContext.
And we're gonna get that
from react-netlify-identity.
And then I'm also going to
import navigate from gatsby.
And what I wanna do is, I want to
check if we're already logged in.
And if so, we want to send
someone over to the dashboard,
the actual logged-in dashboard.
So I'm gonna grab the identity by
just running useIdentityContext.
And if someone has logged in,
this is gonna include all of
the details that we have about them.
Their name, and whether or
not their login is valid, and
some metadata if we wanted to set that.
And so in here,
now that we've got that identity,
I can say, if identity is set and,
We're logged in,
then I don't wanna be on this page,
so I'm gonna navigate
to /dashboard/secret.
And again, we're gonna replace true, cuz
we don't wanna end up in an infinite loop.
And that doesn't do anything yet,
because we're not logged in, but
it didn't break anything,
so that's promising.
So let's pull up our dashboard,
and add the ability to
actually, Show a login modal.
And the nice thing about this is that
netlify just kinda shifts one of these for
us, so
we don't have to build it ourselves.
So I'm gonna grab IdentityModal out
from react-netlify-identity-widget.
And then down here, I'm just gonna stick
this thing in here, so IdentityModal.
And then we can decide whether or
not we wanna show the dialog, and
that needs to be true or false.
And so, by default,
let's just look at it and,
Yeah, let's just look at it to start.
Okay, so that doesn't look great, but
that's okay because we actually
get some styles for free.
And I don't know, yeah,
I can include them here.
Let's just import
react-netlify-identity-widget/styles.css,
I believe is what it is.
There we go, and so
it picks up those styles for us.
So we don't have to actually
deal with that, right?
We just get to have it work and
things are good.
So if I want to log in, and
I think this might not work on a,
Something I'll actually remember.
Okay, so now I'm logged in and
now, okay, I can't hide that.
So I need a way to close that dialog.
So let's actually add a toggle for
our login state.
I wanna be able to show and
hide this modal.
So yeah, go ahead.
>> Quick question, what is the Active
Directory for this authentication?
>> The Active Directory, can you-
>> Where your username and
password's stored?
>> The username and password are stored
in netlify as an OAuth provider.
And it's all backed by gotrue,
the library.
So it's kind of an OAuth
implementation that's open sourced and
then wrapped by netlify identity.
>> Could anyone with a netlify
account sign in like that?
>> Right now, yes, well,
sorry, let me rephrase.
Right now, this is open registration,
anybody who wants to can sign up for this.
But you do have controls in here to say
whether or not somebody's able to log in.
You can say whether or
not people can sign in,
whether you want to allow people to, if
they have to have a certain email address,
or if you have to create an account and
send it to them first.
Those settings are all figured out,
but by default, registration's open.
So anyone who wants to can just put
in their username and email, and
they'll get an account.
And you can add external providers, so
if you wanna be able to login with your
GitHub or Google or something,
you can just check those boxes to do it.
So I want to be able to show and
hide this thing.
So I'm just gonna use a state for
the visibility toggle.
And that is going to be,
we'll call it isVisible.
And then we'll say setVisibility
will be the setter for it.
We're gonna do useState,
and we'll default to false.
So I can say,
show dialog if it is visible.
And then the other thing that I want is,
when somebody hits that close button,
I wanna actually hide it.
So onCloseDialog,
which is one of the settings here,
I can just run setVisibility to false.
Okay, so now, when I go to my login,
And I want to show this window,
I think I need to make this do a thing.
Let's start by setting it to true so
that we can just see it work first.
Okay, so we've got our modal,
it's visible.
I wanna close it, I click close,
hurray, [LAUGH] it did what we wanted.
So by default, we want this to be hidden.
And I want to go into my login route and
make it,
we wanna be able to toggle
this from somewhere else.
So this little visibility
toggle that we made,
let's make that into a helper
function that we can pass around.
So I'm gonna call it showModal,
and we'll just set it like this.
And then down here,
we can call it, showModal, and
then I'm gonna also pass
it in to this login.
And that way, we can control our state
from another component without having to
redeclare how it all works.
So that way,
if I pull up my login component,
I'm now gonna get this showModal helper.
And I can, on my button,
say onClick, let's show the modal.
So now I should be able to click this,
refresh the page.
Click this, no, what did I screw up here,
am I missing a thing?
Passing it in as showModal,
Passing that in as showModal.
Okay, here's what I did wrong.
I'm telling it to hide the modal, so
we were just setting it to false over and
over again.
Which means that I do want to
have this one down here, and
we'll just keep it as false.
And that's the only one that’s
gonna hide the modal, so
we don’t need to write a helper for it.
So let's try that again, okay,
we can show and hide, this is good deal.
So then if I try to login,
let's see if it's gonna let me.
It lets me login, and
it's auto redirected.
So if I make this a little bigger so
we can see it if I go to login,
now I am logged in, and so
it auto redirected us to the secret page.
Okay, so we've got authentication working,
we are getting a user object, and
we can log that to see what it looks like.
Let's just take in our,
where's a good place to show it?
Let's maybe just look at our profile page,
because we're gonna need
to update that anyways.
And so in our profile page, we're gonna
get that useIdentityContext again,
And that comes in from
react-netlify-identity.
Where is it, up here.
And I can just grab this out by saying
const identity = useIdentityContext.
Okay, and then I can console.log that
identity, and we can see what's in here.
So to look at what's coming out,
we've got a bunch of information.
So whether or not, let's see,
these are some functions, so
let's look at the user object.
In the user object,
I have app metadata, so
that shows that I signed up with an email.
Then we can see,
we could set things like the audience.
And this is all OAuth stuff that we're
not really gonna get into today.
But we can see my email if I need that,
and then we can see user metadata,
including my full name and
where I signed up from.
So this gives us just the basics.
We can say, hey, you are logged in, and
we can see that you've got user data,
so we can access it, we can show it.
So let's make this a little
more manageable, and
then let's just show some of this data.
So what I wanna show first is,
I wanna figure out if we're logged in.
And we can do that by saying isLoggedIn.
And I'm just gonna say,
if the identity is set,
and we have identity.isLoggedIn.
So then using this, we can actually
just bail out of showing anything.
Or let's see if we wanna do it like that,
yeah, that's fine.
So effectively, what we're doing here is,
we're just saying,
if we're not logged in,
don't show this profile at all.
And that's good, because we're gonna try
to show login status here, go ahead.
>> In the OAuth thing
that it's giving back,
is there user details that you get for
free?
If somebody had, for example,
regional data in the OS, I mean,
do you just basically get,
yes, this is an actual person?
Or do you get any actual details about who
that person might be from previous logins?
>> So there are services that
can give you additional insight
into users when they log in.
I don't know if netlify will do that, but
I think OAuth has
the ability to support that.
Or sorry, Auth0, is what I meant to say.
And so you can put anything
you want into that token,
you could insert literally anything.
Are they an admin,
are they a regular user?
Do you want to try to get their IP, and
then use the IP to try to
geolocate them or something?
There are a lot of things that you
could do as part of your login process.
When you send that token around,
you can kinda modify it and
put more things in it and send it back.
It's a little out of scope of
what we're talking about today,
but the short answer is,
yes, you can do that.
So the next thing that we wanna do is,
let's get the name out of this.
So the name is kinda buried and
this is where I wish that something
like optional chaining was fully usable.
I think we're so
close to it being possible, but for now,
we're gonna do if identity is set,
and identity.user is set,
and identity.user.user_metadata is set,
and identity.user.user_metadata,
metadata.full_name, so
that's what we need.
So that will give us our name,
and then once we have that,
we can rewrite this,
we can say logged in as, name.
And then I also wanna have a log
out button, so let's add that.
We'll say button and on Click,
we just need to show that modal
cuz that's how you can log out.
And I will say log out, and that means
that we're gonna need to pass this
showModal in, so
we can just add it as a prop.
And then let's go out
to our dashboard here.
And on the profile, we're going to
include showModal as showModal.